# Advanced Solidity Concepts
### Immutability of contracts
Once deployed can never be modified or updated again<br/>
Normally, we have to tell user to start using a smart contract address for a fixes<br/>
ETH merge is the sample, we create a new version, grant user with the old version updates (free new version)



Usually we implement ownable
```sol
contract ZombieFeeding is Ownable {}
```

### onlyOwner Function Modifier
```sol
  modifier onlyOwner() {
    require(isOwner());
    _;
  }
  
  function renounceOwnership() public onlyOwner {
    emit OwnershipTransferred(_owner, address(0));
    _owner = address(0);
  }

```
<details>
  <summary>OpenZeppelin ownable contract</summary>

  ```sol
    pragma solidity >=0.5.0 <0.6.0;

    /**
    * @title Ownable
    * @dev The Ownable contract has an owner address, and provides basic authorization control
    * functions, this simplifies the implementation of "user permissions".
    */
    contract Ownable {
      address private _owner;

      event OwnershipTransferred(
        address indexed previousOwner,
        address indexed newOwner
      );

      /**
      * @dev The Ownable constructor sets the original `owner` of the contract to the sender
      * account.
      */
      constructor() internal {
        _owner = msg.sender;
        emit OwnershipTransferred(address(0), _owner);
      }

      /**
      * @return the address of the owner.
      */
      function owner() public view returns(address) {
        return _owner;
      }

      /**
      * @dev Throws if called by any account other than the owner.
      */
      modifier onlyOwner() {
        require(isOwner());
        _;
      }

      /**
      * @return true if `msg.sender` is the owner of the contract.
      */
      function isOwner() public view returns(bool) {
        return msg.sender == _owner;
      }

      /**
      * @dev Allows the current owner to relinquish control of the contract.
      * @notice Renouncing to ownership will leave the contract without an owner.
      * It will not be possible to call the functions with the `onlyOwner`
      * modifier anymore.
      */
      function renounceOwnership() public onlyOwner {
        emit OwnershipTransferred(_owner, address(0));
        _owner = address(0);
      }

      /**
      * @dev Allows the current owner to transfer control of the contract to a newOwner.
      * @param newOwner The address to transfer ownership to.
      */
      function transferOwnership(address newOwner) public onlyOwner {
        _transferOwnership(newOwner);
      }

      /**
      * @dev Transfers control of the contract to a newOwner.
      * @param newOwner The address to transfer ownership to.
      */
      function _transferOwnership(address newOwner) internal {
        require(newOwner != address(0));
        emit OwnershipTransferred(_owner, newOwner);
        _owner = newOwner;
      }
    }
  ```
</details>

### Gas
In Solidity, your users have to pay every time they execute a function on your DApp using a currency called gas.

Users buy gas with Ether (the currency on Ethereum), so your users have to spend ETH in order to execute functions on your DApp.

<details>
  <summary>How much gas is required to execute a function</summary>
  depends on how complex that function's logic is...
  Each individual operation has a gas cost based roughly on how much computing resources will be required to perform that operation (e.g. writing to storage is much more expensive than adding two integers). The total gas cost of your function is the sum of the gas costs of all its individual operations.
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Why is gas necessary?</summary>
  Ethereum is like a big, slow, but extremely secure computer. When you execute a function, every single node on the network needs to run that same function to verify its output — thousands of nodes verifying every function execution is what makes Ethereum decentralized, and its data immutable and censorship-resistant.

  The creators of Ethereum wanted to make sure someone couldn't clog up the network with an infinite loop, or hog all the network resources with really intensive computations. So they made it so transactions aren't free, and users have to pay for computation time as well as storage.
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Struct packing to save gas</summary>
  
  - use minified uint with struct
      - NORMALLY there's NO BENEFIT to using these sub-types because Solidity reserves 256 bits of storage regardless of the uint size
      - Using uint8 instead of uint (uint256) won't save gas
      - there's an exception to this: inside structs.
  - cluster identical data types together
      - put them next to each other in the struct) so that Solidity can minimize the required storage space.
</details>

### Time Unit
now, days, minutes, weeks, months, years

### Public Functions & Security
calldata is somehow similar to memory
but it's only available to external functions

### Saving gas with 'View' functions
FREE when they're called externally by a user because view functions don't actually change anything on the blockchain – they only read the data. 

So marking a function with view tells web3.js that it only needs to query your local Ethereum node to run the function, and it doesn't actually have to create a transaction on the blockchain (which would need to be run on every single node, and cost gas).

### Storage is expensive
One of the more expensive operations in Solidity is using storage — particularly writes.

This is because every time you write or change a piece of data, it’s written permanently to the blockchain. Forever! Thousands of nodes across the world need to store that data on their hard drives, and this amount of data keeps growing over time as the blockchain grows. So there's a cost to doing that.

In order to keep costs down, you want to avoid writing data to storage except when absolutely necessary. Sometimes this involves seemingly inefficient programming logic — like rebuilding an array in memory every time a function is called instead of simply saving that array in a variable for quick lookups.

In most programming languages, looping over large data sets is expensive. But in Solidity, this is way cheaper than using storage if it's in an external view function, since view functions don't cost your users any gas. (And gas costs your users real money!).


<details>
  <summary>Declaring arrays in memory</summary>
  You can use the memory keyword with arrays to create a new array inside a function without needing to write anything to storage.
  
  The array will only exist until the end of the function call, and this is a lot cheaper gas-wise than updating an array in storage — free if it's a view function called externally.


  ```sol
    function getArray() external pure returns(uint[] memory) {
      // Instantiate a new array in memory with a length of 3
      uint[] memory values = new uint[](3);

      // Put some values to it
      values[0] = 1;
      values[1] = 2;
      values[2] = 3;

      return values;
    }
  ```
</details>
