# App FE & web3.js
Remember, Ethereum is made up of nodes that all share a copy of the same data. 
Setting a Web3 Provider in Web3.js tells our code which node we should be talking to handle our reads and writes. 

It's kind of like setting the URL of the remote web server for your API calls in a traditional web app.

You could host your own Ethereum node as a provider however...
`Infura` is easier to maintain our ETH node to provide DApp for our users

<details>
  <summary>Code</summary>

  ```html
    <!DOCTYPE html>
      <html lang="en">
        <head>
          <meta charset="UTF-8">
          <title>CryptoZombies front-end</title>
          <script language="javascript" type="text/javascript" src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/jquery/3.3.1/jquery.min.js"></script>
          <script language="javascript" type="text/javascript" src="web3.min.js"></script>
          <script language="javascript" type="text/javascript" src="cryptozombies_abi.js"></script>
        </head>
        <body>
          <div id="txStatus"></div>
          <div id="zombies"></div>

          <script>
            var cryptoZombies;
            var userAccount // metamask account

            function startApp() {
              var cryptoZombiesAddress = "YOUR_CONTRACT_ADDRESS";
              cryptoZombies = new web3js.eth.Contract(cryptoZombiesABI, cryptoZombiesAddress);

              var accountInterval = setInterval(function() {
                // Check if account has changed
                if (web3.eth.accounts[0] !== userAccount) {
                  userAccount = web3.eth.accounts[0];
                  // Call some function to update the UI with the new account
                  getZombiesByOwner(userAccount);
                }
              }, 100);

              // listening to event
              cryptoZombies.events.Transfer({ filter: { _to: userAccount } })
              .on("data", function(event) {
                let data = event.returnValues;
                getZombiesByOwner(userAccount)
                  .then(displayZombies);
              }).on("error", console.error);

            }

            function displayZombies(ids) {
              $("#zombies").empty();
              for (id of ids) {
                // Look up zombie details from our contract. Returns a `zombie` object
                getZombieDetails(id)
                .then(function(zombie) {
                  // Using ES6's "template literals" to inject variables into the HTML.
                  // Append each one to our #zombies div
                  $("#zombies").append(`<div class="zombie">
                    <ul>
                      <li>Name: ${zombie.name}</li>
                      <li>DNA: ${zombie.dna}</li>
                      <li>Level: ${zombie.level}</li>
                      <li>Wins: ${zombie.winCount}</li>
                      <li>Losses: ${zombie.lossCount}</li>
                      <li>Ready Time: ${zombie.readyTime}</li>
                    </ul>
                  </div>`);
                });
              }
            }

          function createRandomZombie(name) {
            // This is going to take a while, so update the UI to let the user know
            // the transaction has been sent
            $("#txStatus").text("Creating new zombie on the blockchain. This may take a while...");
            // Send the tx to our contract:
            return cryptoZombies.methods.createRandomZombie(name)
            .send({ from: userAccount })
            .on("receipt", function(receipt) {
              $("#txStatus").text("Successfully created " + name + "!");
              // Transaction was accepted into the blockchain, let's redraw the UI
              getZombiesByOwner(userAccount).then(displayZombies);
            })
            .on("error", function(error) {
              // Do something to alert the user their transaction has failed
              $("#txStatus").text(error);
            });
          }

          function feedOnKitty(zombieId, kittyId) {
            $("#txStatus").text("Eating a kitty. This may take a while...");
            return cryptoZombies.methods.feedOnKitty(zombieId, kittyId)
            .send({ from: userAccount })
            .on("receipt", function(receipt) {
              $("#txStatus").text("Ate a kitty and spawned a new Zombie!");
              getZombiesByOwner(userAccount).then(displayZombies);
            })
            .on("error", function(error) {
              $("#txStatus").text(error);
            });
          }

          // Start here
          function levelUp(zombieId) {
            $("#txStatus").text("Leveling up your zombie...");
            return cryptoZombies.methods.levelUp(zombieId)
            .send({ from: userAccount, value: web3js.utils.toWei("0.001", "ether") })
            .on("receipt", function(receipt) {
              $("#txStatus").text("Power overwhelming! Zombie successfully leveled up");
              getZombiesByOwner(userAccount).then(displayZombies);
            })
            .on("error", function(error) {
              $("#txStatus").text(error);
            });
          }

            function getZombieDetails(id) {
              return cryptoZombies.methods.zombies(id).call()
            }

            // access mapping
            // mapping (uint => address) public zombieToOwner
            function zombieToOwner(id) {
              return cryptoZombies.methods.zombieToOwner(id).call()
            }

            // call function
            function getZombiesByOwner(owner) {
              return cryptoZombies.methods.getZombiesByOwner(owner).call()
            }
            window.addEventListener('load', function() {

              // Checking if Web3 has been injected by the browser (Mist/MetaMask)
              if (typeof web3 !== 'undefined') {
                // Use Mist/MetaMask's provider
                web3js = new Web3(web3.currentProvider);
              } else {
                // Handle the case where the user doesn't have Metamask installed
                // Probably show them a message prompting them to install Metamask
              }

              // Now you can start your app & access web3 freely:
              startApp()

            })
          </script>
        </body>
      </html>

  ```
</details>
## Web3.js
To call a function on smart contract, we need to query one of these nodes:
1. Address of the smart contract
2. Function to call
3. Variables we want to pass

ETH Nodes only speak language called `JSON-RPC`

LUCKILY,,, web3js hides nasty queries below the surface so we only need to interact with readable JS interface

```html
<script
  language="javascript"
  type="text/javascript"
  src="web3.min.js"
></script>
```

or 
```
yarn add web3
```


### Web3 Providers
#### Infura
`Infura` is
- service that MANTAINS a set of Ethereum nodes (provider)
- with a CACHING layer for fast reads
- FREE through their API. 

Using Infura 
- we can reliably send and receive messages to/from the Ethereum blockchain
- no needs to set up and maintain nodes

You can set up Web3 to use Infura as your web3 provider as follows:
```js
var web3 = new Web3(
  new Web3.providers.WebsocketProvider("wss://mainnet.infura.io/ws")
);
```

Since our DApp is going to be used by many users — and these users are going to WRITE to the blockchain and not just read from it — we'll need a way for these users to sign transactions with their private key.

> Ethereum (and blockchains in general) use a public / private key pair to digitally sign transactions. Think of it like an extremely secure password for a digital signature. That way if I change some data on the blockchain, I can prove via my public key that I was the one who signed it — but since no one knows my private key, no one can forge a transaction for me.

It's probably not a good idea to try to manage users' private keys yourself in our app's front-end. The most popular service is Metamask.


#### Metamask
`Metamask` is
- a browser extension for Chrome and Firefox 
- lets users securely manage their Ethereum accounts and private keys
- and use these accounts to interact with websites that are using Web3.js

As a devs, if we want users to interact with your DApp via website in their web browser, we'll definitely want to make it Metamask-compatible.

>Metamask uses Infura's servers under the hood as a web3 provider, just like we did above — but it also gives the user the option to choose their own web3 provider. So by using Metamask's web3 provider, you're giving the user a choice, and it's one less thing you have to worry about in your app.

1. Metamask inject their web3 provider into the browser in the global JS Object web3
2. Our app can check if web3 exists
3. IF YES, use web3.currentProvider as its provider
4. IF NOT, tell user to install to use our app


```js
window.addEventListener('load', function() {
  // Checking if Web3 has been injected by the browser (Mist/MetaMask)
  if (typeof web3 !== 'undefined') {
    // Use Mist/MetaMask's provider
    web3js = new Web3(web3.currentProvider);
  } else {
    // Handle the case where the user doesn't have web3. Probably
    // show them a message telling them to install Metamask in
    // order to use our app.
  }
  // Now you can start your app & access web3js freely:
  startApp()
})

```

## Talking to Contracts
Web3.js needs address and its ABI
#### 1. Contract Address
After compiled and deployed our smart contract to ETH we get the address
#### 2. Contract ABI
`Application Binary Interface` - representation of our contracts' methods in JSON format that tells Web3.js how to format function calls in a way your contract will understand

After deployed to Ethereum, the Solidity compiler will give you the ABI, so you'll need to copy and save this in addition to the contract address

```js
function startApp() {
  var cryptoZombiesAddress = "YOUR_CONTRACT_ADDRESS";
  cryptoZombies = new web3js.eth.Contract(cryptoZombiesABI, cryptoZombiesAddress);
}
```

## Calling contract functions
#### Call
For:
- view and pure functions
- only runs on the local node
- won't create a transaction on the blockchain
> Review: view and pure functions are read-only and don't change state on the blockchain. They also don't cost any gas, and the user won't be prompted to sign a transaction with MetaMask.

```js
myContract.methods.myMethod(123).call()
```
#### Send
For:
- create a transaction/change data on the blockchain
- for any functions that aren't view or pure.

> Note: sending a transaction will require the user to pay gas, and will pop up their Metamask to prompt them to sign a transaction. When we use Metamask as our web3 provider, this all happens automatically when we call send(), and we don't need to do anything special in our code. Pretty cool!

Using Web3.js, you would send a transaction calling a function named myMethod with the parameter 123 as follows:
```js
myContract.methods.myMethod(123).send()
```
Event listener chain
- on('receipt', (receipt) => {}) - successfully created
- on('error', (error) => {})

> Note: You can optionally specify gas and gasPrice when you call send, e.g. .send({ from: userAccount, gas: 3000000 }). If you don't specify this, MetaMask will let the user choose these values.

## Metamask & Accounts
How can we know the address of the user using our app?

MetaMask allows the user to manage multiple accounts in their extension.
Active account:
```js
var userAccount = web3.eth.accounts[0]
```


## Wei
A `wei` is the smallest sub-unit of Ether, there are `10^18 wei` in `one ether`

Web3 conversion utility
```js
  web3js.utils.toWei("1");
```

## Subscribing to an event

We call this event
```sol
event NewZombie(uint zombieId, string name, uint dna);
```
We listen on FE
```js
  cryptoZombies.events.NewZombie()
  .on("data", function(event) {
    let zombie = event.returnValues;
    // We can access this event's 3 return values on the `event.returnValues` object:
    console.log("A new zombie was born!", zombie.zombieId, zombie.name, zombie.dna);
  }).on("error", console.error);
```

> This would trigger an alert every time ANY zombie was created in our DApp — not just for the current user. 

What if we only wanted alerts for the current user?

### Using `indexed`
To filter current user event only, we need indexed
- Add keywords on dApp
```sol
event Transfer(
  address indexed _from, address indexed _to, uint256 _tokenId
);
```

In this case, because `_from` and `_to` are indexed, that means we can filter for them in our event listener in our front end:
-  Filter on js
```js
// Use `filter` to only fire this code when `_to` equals `userAccount`
cryptoZombies.events.Transfer({ filter: { _to: userAccount } })
.on("data", function(event) {
  let data = event.returnValues;
  // The current user just received a zombie!
  // Do something here to update the UI to show it
}).on("error", console.error);
```
As you can see, using events and indexed fields can be quite a useful practice for listening to changes to your contract and reflecting them in your app's front-end.

### Querying past events
We can even query past events using `getPastEvents`, and use the filters `fromBlock` and `toBlock` to give Solidity a time range for the event logs ("block" in this case referring to the Ethereum block number):

```js
cryptoZombies.getPastEvents("NewZombie", { fromBlock: 0, toBlock: "latest" })
.then(function(events) {
  // `events` is an array of `event` objects that we can iterate, like we did above
  // This code will get us a list of every zombie that was ever created
});
```
Because you can use this method to query the event logs since the beginning of time, this presents an interesting use case: `Using events as a cheaper form of storage`.

`Saving data to the blockchain is one of the most expensive operations` in Solidity. But using events is much much cheaper in terms of gas!!

`The tradeoff here is that events only readable on external`. 

For example, we could use this as a historical record of zombie battles — we could create an event for every time one zombie attacks another and who won. The smart contract doesn't need this data to calculate any future outcomes, but it's useful data for users to be able to browse from the app's front-end.

## What next
This lesson was intentionally basic. We wanted to show you the core logic you would need in order to interact with your smart contract, but didn't want to take up too much time in order to do a full implementation since the Web3.js portion of the code is quite repetitive, and we wouldn't be introducing any new concepts by making this lesson any longer.

So we've left this implementation bare-bones. Here's a checklist of ideas for things we would want to implement in order to make our front-end a full implementation for our zombie game, if you want to run with this and build it on your own:

Implementing functions for attack, changeName, changeDna, and the ERC721 functions transfer, ownerOf, balanceOf, etc. The implementation of these functions would be identical to all the other send transactions we covered.

Implementing an "admin page" where you can execute setKittyContractAddress, setLevelUpFee, and withdraw. Again, there's no special logic on the front-end here — these implementations would be identical to the functions we've already covered. You would just have to make sure you called them from the same Ethereum address that deployed the contract, since they have the onlyOwner modifier.

There are a few different views in the app we would want to implement:

a. An individual zombie page, where you can view info about a specific zombie with a permalink to it. This page would render the zombie's appearance, show its name, its owner (with a link to the user's profile page), its win/loss count, its battle history, etc.

b. A user page, where you could view a user's zombie army with a permalink. You would be able to click on an individual zombie to view its page, and also click on a zombie to attack it if you're logged into MetaMask and have an army.

c. A homepage, which is a variation of the user page that shows the current user's zombie army. (This is the page we started implementing in index.html).

Some method in the UI that allows the user to feed on CryptoKitties. We could have a button by each zombie on the homepage that says "Feed Me", then a text box that prompted the user to enter a kitty's ID (or a URL to that kitty, e.g. https://www.cryptokitties.co/kitty/578397). This would then trigger our function feedOnKitty.

Some method in the UI for the user to attack another user's zombie.

One way to implement this would be when the user was browsing another user's page, there could be a button that said "Attack This Zombie". When the user clicked it, it would pop up a modal that contains the current user's zombie army and prompt them "Which zombie would you like to attack with?"

The user's homepage could also have a button by each of their zombies that said "Attack a Zombie". When they clicked it, it could pop up a modal with a search field where they could type in a zombie's ID to search for it. Or an option that said "Attack Random Zombie", which would search a random number for them.

We would also want to grey out the user's zombies whose cooldown period had not yet passed, so the UI could indicate to the user that they can't yet attack with that zombie, and how long they will have to wait.

The user's homepage would also have options by each zombie to change name, change DNA, and level up (for a fee). Options would be greyed out if the user wasn't yet high enough level.

For new users, we should display a welcome message with a prompt to create the first zombie in their army, which calls createRandomZombie().

We'd probably want to add an Attack event to our smart contract with the user's address as an indexed property, as discussed in the last chapter. This would allow us to build real-time notifications — we could show the user a popup alert when one of their zombies was attacked, so they could view the user/zombie who attacked them and retaliate.

We would probably also want to implement some sort of front-end caching layer so we aren't always slamming Infura with requests for the same data. (Our current implementation of displayZombies calls getZombieDetails for every single zombie every time we refresh the interface — but realistically we only need to call this for the new zombie that's been added to our army).

A real-time chat room so you could trash talk other players as you crush their zombie army? Yes plz.

That's just a start — I'm sure we could come up with even more features — and already it's a massive list.

Since there's a lot of front-end code that would go into creating a full interface like this (HTML, CSS, JavaScript and a framework like React or Vue.js), building out this entire front-end would probably be an entire course with 10 lessons in itself. So we'll leave the awesome implementation to you.

Note: Even though our smart contract is decentralized, this front-end for interacting with our DApp would be totally centralized on our web-server somewhere.

However, with the SDK we're building at Loom Network, soon you'll be able to serve front-ends like this from their own DAppChain instead of a centralized web server. That way between Ethereum and the Loom DAppChain, your entire app would run 100% on the blockchain.

Conclusion
This concludes Lesson 6. You now have all the skills you need to code a smart contract and a front-end that allows users to interact with it!
